# zmatrix-to-inp
Easily convert DASH Z-matrices into TOPAS rigid bodies

#### Requires:
- [Python 2.7](https://www.python.org/)          
 Other versions of Python may also work, but this has not been tested.

The output is for use with [Topas](https://www.bruker.com/products/x-ray-diffraction-and-elemental-analysis/x-ray-diffraction/xrd-software/overview/topas.html) which is also available with an [academic license](http://www.topas-academic.net/)

#### Settings:
###### use_H_atoms_in_restraints = False

Toggles the inclusion of hydrogen atoms when mapping the rigid bodies onto the DASH solution

###### beq_for_nonH = "bnonH;"

When refining a single global B iso value for non-hydrogen atoms, set to "bnonH;", otherwise, set to a numerical value of your choice. Remember to include the parameter definition in the inp. For example:

`prm bnonH 1`

This will automatically be refined.

###### beq_for_H = "bH;"

When refining a single global B iso value for hydrogens, set to "bH;", otherwise, set to a numerical value of your choice. Remember to include the parameter definition in the inp. This can be an independent parameter, or set in relation to the bnonH parameter, e.g.:

`prm bH = bnonH * 1.2;`

###### include_torsion_refinement_macro = True

Automatically inserts a macro definition to toggle the refinement of torsion angles, and places the macro name (see below) in the rigid body for torsion angles flagged as refineable by DASH.

###### torsion_refinement_macro_name = "R"

Allows the user to define their own macro name for torsion angle refinement.

#### Script usage:

Call the script from the directory containing the z-matrices you wish to convert:

`python zm-to-inp.py`

You will then be prompted to supply the filenames of the z-matrices you wish to convert. Alternatively, you can supply the filenames as command line arguments. To convert the zmatrices "test_1.zmatrix" and "test_2.zmatrix" you would run the following command:

`python zm-to-inp.py test_1.zmatrix test_2.zmatrix`

#### Output file

The script writes out a file with the ".inp" extension, into the same directory that contains the z-matrices. The filename is based on the Z-matrices converted, with "_rigid-body.inp" appended. For example, if the zmatrix "test_1.zmatrix" was converted, then the resultant output inp file would be "test_1_rigid-body.inp". Similarly, if the zmatrices "test_1.zmatrix" and "test_2.zmatrix" were used, then the resultant output file would be "test_1_test_2_rigid-body.inp"

The following instructions assume a basic familiarity with TOPAS used via _launch mode_. For more detailed information, see the TOPAS manual and excellent [tutorials by John Evans](https://community.dur.ac.uk/john.evans/topas_academic/topas_main.htm).

#### Instructions for use with TOPAS

- Once the crystal structure has been solved using DASH as normal, save the solution as a .cif and create a TOPAS Rietveld refinement input file. Perform a scale-factor-only Rietveld refinement to ensure everything has worked correctly. The easiest way to do this is to use the [Durham TOPAS jEdit tools](https://community.dur.ac.uk/john.evans/topas_academic/topas_main.htm) to set up the .inp file and to read in the .cif. 

- Once the scale-only Rietveld .inp file has been created and has been run successfully, use zm-to-inp.py to convert the necessary z-matrices into the correct TOPAS format (see above for instructions). Open the resultant .inp file, then copy and paste the contents of the whole file to the bottom of the scale-only Rietveld .inp file. Save this as "map-zmatrices.inp".

- The next step is to map the rigid bodies onto the DASH solution. To do this, we need to run the "map-zmatrices.inp" file, then allow the .inp to be updated from the .out file. To check that this has been successful, first look at the Rwp for this run - it should be (almost) zero at the end of the refinement. As a second check, open the newly created cif that is generated by TOPAS - "mapped_ZMs.cif" to check that the rigid bodies have been mapped onto the DASH solution. For example, using Mercury, open the CIF then select the "Label Atoms" option. If the only atoms visible have the letter Z after them, then the mapping has been successful.

- Once this has been completed, all that remains is to open the map-zmatrices.inp file and delete the original atom sites (i.e. those that do not end with a Z). Then delete all of the distance restraints, the "only_penalties" keyword and the "Out_CIF_STR("mapped-ZMs.cif") line. Once this has been done, save the file as "rigid_body_refinement.inp" and continue with the refinement.
 
- Rigid-body based Rietveld refinement can now proceed using the newly created .inp as the basis.
